# LevelDesign

I am playing ‘The Last of Us’, Bus Depot Level for this particular examination of level design. This level does using some of Bond’s Elements in interesting ways, the most interesting and unique way I experienced in this level was the use of the giraffe, especially since you can also interact with it. I would class this as kind of a Landmark, but also an interesting Non-Player character that enhances the story and gives depth to the world that we are inhabiting. At this point, players will most likely know most of the mechanics and move sets, as this is a later level in the game, but it still does encourage continued searching of areas (cars, the bus depot itself) by rewarding with items etc. An interesting mechanic that this game employs is the use of Ellie (a non-player character) to interact with things that you yourself may not be able to get. You can dispatch her to retrieve items or move the ladder so you can climb down, boost her up to have her collect things for you, etc.. Having Ellie as someone to help you is an interesting twist on NPC characters, as often it seems they can only offer advice or explain plot to you, not physically help you around the world. This means that when designing levels, Ellie’s skills are also taken into account in how you can traverse the world. This is used within the Bus Depot Level quite frequently, and really encourages the player to be a little more creative in how walls or other things can be overcome. This level has a tunnel with clickers inside of it. The use of a tunnel is quite interesting in level design because it’s a very natural Constraint, only allowing you a certain amount of agency to choose your path. It also means light can be used as a Visual Design element to guide the player through the level. A flashlight is available to us as we walk through the darkness, but there definitely is an amount of draw to the lighted areas in the tunnel and inside the bus depot. Music is also a pretty significant part of ‘The Last of Us’ level design, as you progress further into the tunnel, the music changes to signify different enemies being in the area and the player getting closer to where they need to be going. The tunnel is never too narrow though, as this would cause it to be very difficult to either sneak past, or kill the enemies in melee combat. This element of adding Constraint, but not too much Constraint to make the game too difficult or too easy is a fine balance. Direct Guidance is not too heavy handed in this game, at least in the level I am analyzing, there is no compass or specific guidance, but when using certain weapons, there will be tool tips, or a triangle pop up sometimes appears to let you know you can interact with something. The Call to Action in this level is an overarching story drive to get to the Fireflies, which Ellie mentions at the start of the level is your current task. This Call to Action is the culmination of smaller calls in earlier levels of the game, that slowly give way to the biggest mission. The solving of the mystery and finally getting to the Fireflies is a huge driving factor for the player to continue playing, and I would say the story is the most compelling part of the game.  
